okay good morning everyone happy snow
day um we are going to jump right back
into lectures uh but just as a reminder
all of the uh undergraduates and grad
those taking the course for graduate
credit you are both working on your
first weekly report in which you're
going to map out for us how you're going
to approach your final projects uh final
projects over the next four weeks uh if
you're coming up with an idea of your
own rather than picking something from
the predefined list remember to please
come see Fria the TA or
myself uh to vet the idea okay so uh
back to lecture material we're working
our way through uh open problems in the
field and we've been uh wrestling with
arguably the hardest problem in the
field which is to cross the reality Gap
we looked at the original formulation
back in the 90s we looked at the Golem
pro project in 2000 and we are just
about to finish lecture 17 which was my
own attempt to try and cross the reality
Gap uh back in
2006 where the idea was to evolve
simulations that more closely match the
robot's reality uh in this particular
experiment the the simulators are trying
to match basically the body of the robot
so we're evolving not necessarily the
simulator itself but the simulated robot
so that its body more closely matches uh
the
robots as you may remember from last
time I told you that the resilient
machines project contains three
different evolutionary algorithms the
first one evolves populations of
simulations the second evolutionary
algorithm uses the most fit uh
simulation you can see that this
simulation is more fit than these three
this one more closely matches the
robot's
reality the second evolutionary
algorithm evolves neural controllers uh
inside this evolved simulation where the
fitness function is whatever we actually
want the robot to do which is surprise
surprise to move from the left side of
the table to the right side of the
table okay so just to refresh your
memory and build uh help to strengthen
your intuition about how all this works
I want you to think about the
phenotype in this first evolutionary
algorithm the genotype is some data
structure which we don't need to talk
about
here the phenotype is how all the parts
are put together how big or small these
parts are basically the robot is trying
to construct in a simulation a
description of its own body what is the
fitness of any one of these bodies in
the simulator the simulator
itself the fitness is calculated as the
similarity between the simulated robots
sensor values remember that this robot
has two vestibular sensors on board one
that measures how much the main the
robot's main body tilts left and right
and the second vestibular sensor
measures how much the robot tilts
forward and back so two
numbers the physical robot collects two
physical sensor readings how much it
tilted left and right or forward and
back after moving and each of these four
simulated robots also collects two
numbers which is how much its main body
tilted we take the difference between
the simulated and physical robots sensor
value
and fitness tries to reduce this value
the more similar uh the more similar
virtual and real simulated and real
sensor data is the more fit that
simulator is
okay going to come back we'll come back
to this green one in a moment I've been
holding off on this one for a little
bit in the uh in the third one uh this
is the more one that's probably more
familiar to you the phenotype is the
robot neural controller and fitness is
how far does that neural controller get
the virtual robot to move okay so let's
back up for a moment and think about
this third evolutionary algorithm you
remember that when we were watching the
videos last time the physical robot
would do something then the simulated
the simulators would be evolved to match
it then the new physical robot would do
something else and the simulators would
be re-evolved or evolve further to
explain the first and the second
experience of the
robot but I haven't told you yet how
that robot chooses how to move it turns
out that there are better or worse ways
that this robot can move to explore its
own
body you might remember uh from the
videos I showed last time that the very
first thing the robot did was to rotate
Motors one and five down its left uh its
left knee its left hip Motors one and
five down lift all the others up then it
evolved uh it evolved virtual bodies to
uh explain that experience what is the
worst possible action the robot can
perform next to learn more about its own
body give you a moment to think about
that the worst possible thing the robot
could do would be to perform exactly the
same action rotate Motors one and five
down and collect that data now that's
not always true from time to time it
makes sense to repeat previous
actions just to test whether something
has changed like for example the robot's
leg has broken off and I showed you in
an example of that last time but for the
moment we're going to assume that that
the robot's relatively sure things are
unchanging It's relatively safe in that
case obviously doing the same action
over and over again is the worst
possible thing you could do the best
possible thing to do is to explore is to
try something new but what exactly do we
mean by to try something new it could be
just something other than rotate Motors
one and five down and there's obviously
a ton of things that it could
do some of those things may be a little
bit redundant it may end up uh
experiencing a familiar sensation how do
we truly ensure that the robot does
something that extracts new information
about itself from the
world here's how I I'm going to explain
that by now talking about this third
evolutionary algorithm called
exploration which is going to evolve
ways in which the physical robot should
move next so the robot is going to quote
unquote think using this third
evolutionary algorithm about what to do
next where the goal about what to do
next is to make sure it gets new sensory
information
that helps it improve its understanding
of
itself okay let's imagine that at this
par particular point in time the
physical robot has performed performed a
couple actions it's got a fair bit of
experience and it's evolved these four
different simulators these four
different
understandings of itself and as you can
see one of them actually is correct and
the other three are wrong but remember
the robot doesn't have a camera it can't
see itself it it doesn't know that this
one is correct these four let's assume
for now are all able to reproduce the
sensations of this robot when we Supply
however many actions the physical robot
has performed to these virtual robots
every time this physical robot moved in
a particular way when we cause any of
these four to move with that action that
virtual robot generates the same sensory
information so the robot is looking for
a way to try and figure out which of any
of these is correct or maybe determine
that none of them are correct they
should all be thrown away and rep
replaced with something better so what
should the robot do next to investigate
or figure out where and where these uh
models of itself are wrong okay let's
imagine a the robot uh generates some
random neural controller it thinks up
some random way to move move the
physical robot doesn't carry it out yet
so the robot is thinking to itself I
wonder what would happen if I ran this
neural
controller the robot takes that neural
controller it's perhaps random and it
drops it in to each of the four under
models it has of itself at the moment so
these four different bodies are running
exactly the same
brain but as you can see with these
cartoon green arrows the way in which
each of these four virtual robots moves
is very different and remember we're
going to collect vestibular Sensation
from this main block we're getting back
two numbers from each of these green
blocks how much the robot tilts left and
right and how much it tilts forward and
back you can see that in this case all
of the green blocks are tilting in
different
ways in essence these are the robots
four self models it's four
understandings of itself saying okay if
you carry out this if you if you run
this neural controller you're going to
move in this way this self model says no
no no you're crazy you're not going to
move like this you're going to move like
this the third model says you're both
nuts you're both wrong if we run this
neural controller this is what's going
to if he runs this neural controller
this is what's going to happen and so on
these self models disagree in their
predictions about sensory data if the
physical robot runs it they disagree in
their predictions about the sensory
repercussions of that
action that's a lot I'll give you a
minute to soak that
in so in the exploration algorithm over
here every time the physical robot is
about to move it's going to run this
algorithm for a bit using the current
self models
to figure out a good new way to move if
all of these four self models disagree
about what's going to happen then if the
physical robot actually runs that neural
controller they can't all be right some
of them are going to be wrong the
physical vestibular sensation uh
experienced by the robot is going to
have a mismatch with the vestibular
sensation of some of these models and in
this case these three models which we
know are wrong are probably going to
drop in Fitness and this one be because
we know that this self model is very
close to the robot's actual
self there is going to be a good match
between this vestibular sensation and
this vestibular sensation so the fitness
of this individual probably will not
change the fitness of these three will
drop when the robot goes back to
evolving models of itself and this
model will produce randomly modified
copies of itself and very quickly this
population is going to be filled with
slightly different versions of
this okay so this exploration uh
algorithm is evolving uh it's evolving
actions or things to do it's evolving a
set of synaptic weights for a controller
that causes the robot to act and the
fitness of each of these individual
neural controllers is the amount of
prediction disagreement among the four
self models or however many self models
there are this is all done in
simulation okay um this has an
interesting connection to developmental
psychology developmental psychology
being the study of children or how
children develop into adults um if
you've ever spent any time around a baby
or a toddler you will know that they are
always moving and they never seem to
repeat the same action twice they're
always doing crazy things putting stuff
in their mouths hitting their brothers
and sisters with a toy Mallet you you
name it this is known as motor babbling
this is the idea that a newborn baby or
a newborn organism is trying to figure
out how to operate this fantastically
complicated machine and they're randomly
trying out all sorts of things if you go
back and watch the videos in this
lecture series of just the physical
robot all the actions that it performs
which are being sent to it by the
exploration algorithm if you watch all
the actions that that robot performs
they all look different they kind you
don't really see any pattern to them or
repetition to them they look random but
as you now know those actions are not
chosen at random these actions are
actually carefully designed Inside the
Mind of the robot if you
like to break its own predictions it has
ideas about what's going to happen and
it's trying out things for which it's
least certain about what's going to
happen when we wrote this paper that
suggested to us U an interesting idea
which has yet to be confirmed or denied
in actual human children which is maybe
children are not actually acting
randomly they are actually choosing very
very carefully what to do which is an
action designed to try and break or
disprove their current understandings of
themselves just a just an
aside okay all right we are going to
finish the resilient machines uh
discussion here and returning to the
schedule for a moment we are going to
now uh talk about the fourth and final
attempt to cross the reality Gap that
we're going to look at in this class as
I mentioned there are many many attempts
to do this um we're going to look at
this one here which has uh some
particularly interesting aspects that
might be useful for your final project
okay
okay so this is known as the
transferability project for a very good
reason what they're going to try and do
now is evolve controllers in simulation
uh on a virtual robot like we've seen
many times before and then send some of
those evolved controllers to a physical
robot but they're going to evolve these
controllers not just to maximize the
movement of the virtual robot they're
going to try and Maxim the fitness
function is also going to try and
maximize
the
transferability of a controller how well
it will transfer to reality if we send
it to reality so the question that the
authors of this study started with
is could the transferability of a
controller be added to a fitness
function that's their question like
every good question in science it
immediately breeds a whole bunch of
other questions the first one that might
have occurred to you as you first saw
this question is what exactly do you
mean by
transferability okay we'll come back to
that uh how to define it in a
moment if we're going to try and add
transferability to a controller that
means we're going to have two we're
going to compute two values in our
fitness function one is going to compute
the desired Behavior which as you're
going to see in a moment surprise
surprise how far the robot moves from
the left to the right so we're going One
Fitness term is going to reward for
displacement the second uh term in the
fitness function is going to reward for
transferability which the authors Define
as the similarity between the simulated
and real Behavior so if the if the
simulated robot moves like this and the
physical robot moves like this uh low
transferability if the simulated robot
moves like this and the physical robot
moves like this High transferability
pretty pretty straightforward right so
we've got these two terms that we're
going to uh Evol uh these two terms are
going to be used to compute the quality
of a given set of synaptic weights for a
neural controller in an evolving
population of neural
controllers okay instead of multiplying
these two terms together or adding them
together in the way that we've seen many
times now in this course they're going
to do something different this is known
as moo uh an easily to easy to remember
adjective which stands for
multi-objective
optimization what the uh the best way to
understand multiobjective optimization
is to understand it geometrically so
here we go we're going to create a
two-dimensional plane and we're going to
Define two different axes the horiz Al
axis down here is going to represent how
transferable a given controller
is and the vertical axis is going to
represent how well that controller
causes the robot to move from left to
right the behavior that we want imagine
we have a population made up of 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 a population of 12
controllers so we've got a population of
12 vectors where each Vector encodes
synaptic weights for a neural controller
we can take each of those 12 controllers
drop it into the virtual robot evaluate
that virtual robot in simulation and
measure the behavior of that virtual
robot how far does that robot move and
we can plot uh the height we can drop
that point at a height corresponding to
how well that controller causes the
robot to move so this controller which
is high in the plot caused the robot to
move uh a far distance from left to
right and this point this controller
down here caused the robot to barely
virtual robot to move barely at
all if we can also measure the
transferability of a controller how well
it transfers from simulation to
reality we can plot that transferability
on the horizontal axis so let's imagine
for the moment we have these 12
controllers we've evaluated each of them
on the virtual robot we know how well
they uh cause the robot to exhibit the
behavior we want we take each of those
controllers and we evaluate it on the
physical robot as well and we look at
the Gap in Behavior between the virtual
robot and the physical robot if there is
uh if there is a big gap so up here we
know that that controller caused the
virtual robot to move a far distance
distance when we transferred it to the
physical robot let's assume for the
robot for the moment the physical robot
didn't move at all there's a big gap
between simulated and physical Behavior
which means
low
transferability this one this controller
out here caused the robot to barely move
at all caused the virtual robot to move
barely at all and when we transfer it to
reality let's assume the physical robot
also did not move very much there's a
good match there's a low difference
between the behavior of the simulated
and physical robot we have high
transferability if we do that for all 12
of the controllers we get a picture that
looks like this some are good at
objective two and poor at objective one
some are good at objective one but poor
at objective two some are pretty bad at
both this one is kind of okay at both
everybody see that
now you might already be wondering if
we're trans if we need to compute the
transferability of every
controller and in order to do that we
have to send every controller to the
physical robot why are we using
simulation at all why don't we just
evaluate every controller on the
physical robot it's a good question um
that's not what the what the authors did
they came up with a way of estimating
transferability for each controller
after it had been run on the simulated
robot without having to send it to the
physical
robot I'll come back to that in a moment
but I want us to focus on
multi-objective optimization because
some of you in your final project are
already thinking about multiple terms
for your Fitness function if you want uh
if you want a robot to jump one
objective might be for uh all four feet
to spend as little time on the ground as
possible
and the second objective might be height
of the main body of the robot you can
actually formulate two different
objectives for
jumping and you could uh evolve jumping
for your robot in a multi-objective
optimization way okay so let's come back
to move for a moment we'll come back to
how to actually compute transferability
for a controller before we send it to
reality but for now let's let's assume
we're just able to compute
transferability you can see that we now
have these 12 initially random neural
controllers spread throughout this
two-dimensional space in an evolutionary
algorithm we now need to delete the ones
that have low Fitness and make randomly
modified copies of the surviving
controllers given this picture which
controllers do you think we delete in
this case I'll give you a moment to
think about
this
the way we choose which ones are to be
deleted in a multi-objective
optimization method is to find all of
the controllers which are dominated what
do we mean by dominated a dominated
solution is one in which there is one at
least one other controller in the
population that is better at both
objectives for example if we look at
this controller down here we see this
controller here is is more transferable
it's further to the right than this one
and this controller also produces more
of the desired behavior that we want
this controller is higher than this
controller so this particular controller
is
dominated by this controller so we would
delete this
controller in turn if we now look if we
now come to this controller and try and
decide whether this one should be
deleted we see that it is also dominated
it's dominated by this one this one is
both more transferable is better in
terms of objective one and it's better
at objective two than this one so this
this controller dominates this one this
one is also dominated we would delete
this one you can probably see where this
is
going this one is dominated by this one
so we delete this one and
now there is for this controller there
is no other controller that is better at
objective one and objective two there is
no controller that is above and to the
right of this controller so this
controller is non
dominated you can probably do this by
eye or better to even do this with your
cursor by picking one and finding
another one that dominates it you can
probably go through and determine who is
about to be deleted in this population
and who's going to
survive Okay so so here are all the ones
that are dominated and here are all the
ones that are
non-dominated uh when I made this slide
originally I made a mistake one of them
is mislabeled and I'll give you a moment
to see if you can figure it
out it's this one this one is actually
non-dominated you'll notice that if you
look at this one there is no other
controller that is above and to the
right of this controller okay so you'll
see the I've connected all of these
non-dominated Solutions with a line
there should really be a line going from
this one to this one and then from this
one to this one okay okay so we've
deleted all of these and we have 1 two 3
four five six seven survivors and we
have five empty slots in our population
how do we know now choose who to uh who
how who do we choose sorry among these 1
2 3 4 5 6 6 seven among these seven
parents how do we choose which one gets
to produce a child we do it at random
among all of these seven
individuals none of them are better than
any others for every single one and you
can do that by walking along this line
uh they're all for each of them there's
another one that's better at one
objective but worse at the other
objective so this is what's a little bit
confusing about move for most people
your evolutionary algorithms and all the
evolutionary algorithms we've seen so
far we compute the fitness for
everything in the population and then
there is always a champion there is one
individual in the population that has
the highest Fitness there is the best
solution so far in moo that's usually
not true they're usually a subset of
solutions that are all uh optimal um
this is known as parito uh uh parito
optimality
you can Google it p a r e t
o Paro
optimality okay so we choose one of
these seven parents at random with
uniform uh with uniform probability so
any of the seven has an equal chance of
being chosen we choose it we copy all
the synaptic weights of that neural
controller into a new child controller
to fill one of the five empty slots and
as we're copying the synaptic weights we
make a few random mod mod ified changes
to the
child so now we filled one of the five
slots we go back and pick another one of
the seven parents at random uh it's
allowed to produce a child which fills
fills a second uh slot and we keep going
until we now have five new children and
we have the original Seven
parents in my example here let's imagine
that this particular parent produced
this child when we got this child we
when we've created all five children and
we evaluated this child it had this
transferability and this ability
to uh generate the desired behavior in
the virtual robot you'll notice that
this child is a little above and to the
right of its
parent so when we come to the end of
this new generation in which we've just
evaluated all five of these new children
what do you think happens now which
individuals are
deleted
obviously this child dominates its
parent so this parent was non-dominated
but it was non-dominated it's now become
dominated and it is in turn deleted and
if you now imagine running this
multi-objective optimization over time
you can imagine this Pito front p a r e
t o this Paro
front uh pero is the name of the
economist actually who came up with this
idea uh you can imagine this parito
front starts to March up and to the
right we basically end up with a line of
non-dominated solutions up here all of
which are pretty good at
transferability and pretty good at
Behavior okay so far so good
okay okay here's some actual data from
the experiment uh you'll notice there's
a number of differences from my
simplified cartoon version here and the
real thing um we've got the the vertical
axis is still the same as over here
they're measuring for each one of these
each one of these points uh these
circles and Crosses each one represents
an individual neural controller the
height of that point represents uh the
distance covered by the by the virtual
robot in simulation measured uh in me
meters and we're trying to maximize that
okay
on the horizontal axis here they're
plotting uh simulation to reality
disparity and we're trying to minimize
that so we're trying to minimize the gap
or the disparity between uh the
simulated robots Behavior and the real
robots Behavior better controllers are
further to the left there's less
disparity between the behavior of the
simulated robot for that controller and
the behavior behavior of the physical
robot using sorry using that
controller okay so in this case here
we're trying to maximize transferability
and a Max maximize displacement so we're
trying to push up and to the right here
we're trying to maximize displacement
and
minimize uh the Gap the Sim to real Gap
so now optimization is trying to push up
and to the left everybody see that okay
again I haven't really told you exactly
how they compute uh this disparity yet
but for our purposes just imagine they
send it from simulation to
reality okay let's have a look at all
the X's first you can see all the X's
down
here um these are all the controllers at
generation I so this is partway through
an evolutionary process you can see most
of the X's are hugging the bottom right
part of the the panel these aren't doing
very well at all they have high
disparity and they're not causing the
simulated robot to move very much when
we go from crosses to circles black and
white we now the circles all represent
controllers in the Next Generation in
the i+ one
generation first thing you should notice
is that the circles tend to be higher
and to the left of the ex's so the
optimization has made a little bit of
progress here and again you'll see that
the like in my cartoon here dominated
Solutions are shown as white circles and
non-dominated solutions are shown as
black
circles you'll now notice the black
circles describe a Paro front these are
the non-dominated
controllers and all the dominated
controllers are behind are below and to
the right of that line so what this plot
is showing us as a whole is that
evolution is starting to make progress
it's starting to evolve better
controllers controllers that cause the
robot to do more of what we want and
they're more transferable controllers
these controllers are narrowing the gap
between simulation and
reality okay I think in the interest of
time I'm going to skip over I'm going to
skip over this plot okay okay so let's
come back to uh where this experiment is
going we just had a look at the
particular kind of evolutionary
algorithm they're going to use to do
this they're going to evolve uh they're
going to evolve controllers to be
transferable and reward for the desired
Behavior but how do we compute
transferability to compute
transferability at the moment all we
know is the only way to do this for each
for each controller is to evaluate each
one on the real robot it's a bit of a
problem so how do we solve this problem
how how do we compute transferability of
a controller before we send it to
reality okay here's how the authors
solved this problem let's imagine uh
we're starting this evolutionary
algorithm we have a population of random
controllers in this case uh uh we can
see them all here we take each one of
these random controllers and we drop it
into the virtual robot one after the
other and measure how well that
controller causes the robot to move so
we have the heights for all of these
gray
points okay we do not know how well any
of these controllers transfer from
simulation to reality so geometrically
let's imagine that they all collapse
down uh onto a one-dimensional line so
the only thing we have is the height of
these points we do not know their
horizontal position in this
two-dimensional plane so look at all the
gray dots lined up on the black vertical
line here you can take one of these 12
controllers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
you can take one of these 12 random
controllers and send it to the physical
robot to measure that controller's
actual transferability which one do you
send okay hopefully uh like me you're an
optimist and you choose this one this is
the one that's causing the virtual robot
to exhibit more of what you actually
want so let's give it a try maybe the
reality Gap is not so wide in whatever
application this
is okay so here we go we're going to
take this
one
okay here it is in simulation as you can
see it causes the robot to move from
left to right
maybe not in the way the investigators
were originally expecting but does what
we
want okay as you can see on the right
they're now going to take this one
random neural controller and drop it
into the physical
robot
okay how do we
do as you can see here we failed to
cross the Gap this particular neural
controller fell into the Gap so this
controller is good at objective two the
vertical axis that I showed you before
it extracts a lot of the desired
behavior in Sim but on the
transferability axis it's far to the far
to the left it has low
transferability okay so going back to
our evolutionary algorithm uh we now
take this uh neural controller and we
move it far to the left we now know the
actual transferability for this
controller which one do you send
next let's imagine you get to send
another
one you're probably not going to send
this one because this controller barely
causes the virtual robot to move at all
so even if it's transfer has high
transferability who cares it's not
useful to
us you might also not want to transfer
this one because this one this one is
actually quite close to this one at
least in terms of behavior so it's
possible that this neural controller
it's causing the robot to move in a
similar way that doesn't transfer well
to reality so maybe want to stay away
from this stuff and maybe we want to
stay away from this stuff and maybe we
take this one or maybe we take this
one okay so the idea here the intuition
that you're going to see is they're
going to start to estimate the
transferability of the other controllers
based on how similar the behavior is
produced by that controller compared to
controllers that have been sent to
reality and for which we know their
transferability so said more simply
controllers that are closer to low to
controllers that have low
transferability we're going to estimate
their transferability is
low and controllers that are far from
controllers we've sent to reality we're
going to assume we know relatively
little we're not going to be able to
estimate their transferability very
well okay let's see how they did this
okay so we're going to uh the solution
to uh Computing transferability for our
evolving controllers before we send them
to reality is to estimate each of their
transfer abilities based on how similar
they are to controllers we've already
tested on the physical
robot okay this raises yet another
problem which is how do you measure the
similarity between Behavior so going
back to the cartoon here for a moment
just because this controller produced uh
about the same Fitness value is this one
do we actually know how similar these
behaviors are we need a way to measure
similarity between Behavior not just
similarity between Fitness Fitness is
just a single number how far the robot
traveled we'd like to actually compare
how two Ro how the robot moves when it's
running two different controllers this
one and this one for
example okay so let's see how they
Define similarity between two behaviors
they're going to Define similarity by
defining a distance measure between any
two
behaviors so whatever this distance
measure is if we take two behaviors
produced by two different controllers
and the distance between them is zero
that means the robot exhib exhibits
identical
Behavior Uh when controlled by those two
controllers okay before we can define a
distance measure for behaviors we need
to define the behaviors themselves in
this case in this experiment uh instead
of measuring every single sensor value
at every time step they came up with
something that was a little simpler they
boiled down the movement of uh of the
robot into three floating Point numbers
F1 F2 and
F3 F1 the total distance traveled by the
robot F2 is the mean height the average
height of the robot during
travel and uh Fitness three was the
final orientation of the robot you might
remember from last time I showed you the
injured uh quadraped that started facing
forward and as it walked it ended by
facing backwards so they're going to
compute the final or horizontal
orientation of the robot uh in radians
it's just a third number so we've got a
neural controller which is defined as a
whole bunch of floating Point values the
synaptic
weights we take that Vector label the
neural controller of the robot let the
robot do its thing in simulation and as
it's doing its thing in simulation we
measure these three numbers how far does
the robot traveled what's its mean
height and what's its final
orientation we can then compute the
distance between any two behaviors by
taking the ukian distance between these
uh between two length three vectors
that's what's shown down here so the
behavioral distance between controller
one and controller two is in this
experiment defined as the ukian distance
between B1 this behavioral vector and B2
yeah since this is a a triplet of
numbers you can think of these three
numbers uh as Xyz coordinates so you can
think of a controller producing a
behavior that sits somewhere in
threedimensional space so controller one
produces B1 that sits here in
three-dimensional space controller two
produces B2 which sits here in
threedimensional space and the
behavioral distance is the ukian
distance between these two points in
three-dimensional space that's what it
is yeah if these two points B1 and B2
sit right on top of one
another those two controllers produced
identical behavior in the robot that
behavior could be in both cases the
robot sits still or in both cases the
robot does this or in both cases the
robot does this doesn't really matter
yeah so we're going to see as we move
forward we're going to see a lot of C's
and B's remember C subi is going to is
going to reference the ath controller in
the population and B subi is going to
denote the behavior produced by that
controller okay so now that we've Define
the distance between any two behaviors
how do we Define the transferability of
a single controller eye I give you a
moment to think about
that
we're going to define the
transferability of c subi as a function
of uh as the
controller
uh as the as the behavioral distance
between the the behavioral distance
between the behavior produced by
controller eye and simulation and the
behavior produced by controller I in
reality
yeah remember be behavioral distance
between two controllers behavioral
distance between the same controller but
evaluated in two different robots the
simulated robot and the real
robot okay and we're going to define the
transferability of C subi as the minus
the negative of that give you a moment
to think about why the negative of
that
behavioral distance is a distance metric
every distance metric by definition is a
positive number a negative distance is
an IL defined term so everything in this
particular term here uh behavioral
distance is always a positive number and
the more positive that number is the
bigger the distance or the bigger the
difference between the two
behaviors so we can set transferability
to
the minus of that the more negative the
right hand side of this equation is the
more uh sorry the uh the Le sorry the
less neg the less
negative this uh this thing is to the
right of the equal sign the more
transferable it is so because behavioral
distance is always positive we know that
whenever we compute this thing it's
always going to be negative and the more
negative it is the bigger the Gap the
bigger the reality Gap so
transferability is trying to minimize
that Gap get it as close to zero as
possible okay some of these sort of
double negatives a negative difference
between things yeah we want this thing
to be as high as possible to be as uh
leastly leastly leastly negative as
possible okay again we're back to uh
Computing transferability of a
controller based on simulation and
reality so this is only we're going to
use this we're going to use this
equation only for those controllers that
we have sent from simulation to
reality okay
so as I mentioned before uh imagine we
have 12 controllers and we take the best
one and we send it to reality and so now
we know the transferability of that one
neural controller we need to
estimate the transferability of the
remaining 11 neural controllers that we
have not yet sent to reality how do we
do that well let's go to the second
controller the first of the 11 that
we're going to try and estimate
transferability for we can't compute
transferability for it because we
haven't sent it to reality yet we're
going to estimate it uh in the following
way assume this controller is called
called
C we're going to compute the behavioral
distance between controller C and
controller C where controller CI belongs
to the set of already transferred
controllers at this point this set CT
contains only one member it contains the
control that the best controller the one
that we sent to reality so we're
Computing the behavioral distance
between C take C and drop it into the
virtual
robot and compute and watch Its Behavior
and we have we also know uh how C subi
the one that we sent to reality we know
how that causes the virtual robot to
move so we can compute the behavioral
distance between C and C
subi and we're going to sum up these
behavioral
distances we're going to sum up these
behavioral distances over all the ones
that we've sent to reality which the
moment is only one we're going to
actually take a weighted sum we're going
to sum up the transferability how
transferable was C subi the one that we
sent to reality how well did it cross
the Gap and we're going to add it to our
estimate of the transferability of C
we're going to we're going to decrease
the weight of this particular weighted
sum by the behavioral distance between C
and C subi
so we're summing up all the transfer
abilities we're basically taking the
average of all the transferability of
all the controllers we've sent to
reality so if we're trying to figure out
how transferable this one is we can look
at all the ones we've sent so far and
say our best guess for the
transferability of C is the average
transferability of all the ones we've
sent to reality so far that's okay
that's a good guess but we can do better
instead of just taking the average we
can take the weighted average the
influence on the weighted average is
going to be modulated by how close C
subi is to
C the more similar the behavior produced
by C subi and C the greater this weight
we're dividing by behavioral distance so
going back to my cartoon for a
moment this one if this one actually had
been uh sorry if we're trying to compute
the transferability of this one the
transferability of this one has a
greater weight or greater influence on
the estimate of transferability for this
one then for example this one if we did
send it to
reality
okay takes a moment to wrap your mind
around that right here's a here's a
geometric way of thinking about it we're
trying to estimate we're trying to
estimate the transferability of C we
have a bunch of other C's out there that
have been transferred to reality and
they have different transfer abilities
if one is close and that one had low
transferability then I I'm going to
estimate that I have low
transferability one that's very far from
me that had high transferability that
might increase my my estimate of my own
transferability a little bit but only a
little bit because that other one is far
from me it's behaviorally
distant okay so we can use this equation
to estimate the
transferability of this one this one
this one this one this one this one this
one and using that estimate you would
get something that kind of looks like
this this one this controller that's
close to this one and estimate it has a
close it has a a similar transferability
this one is probably not going to differ
that much from the
mean okay
Okay so we've in my cartoon example we
took that really good controller sent it
to reality it had terrible
transferability we've got 11 remaining
which one would you pick we've estimated
the transferability of all of
these which one do you send
next the intuition of the
authors
is that you're going to send the
controller which is most different from
those in the current population so among
the remaining 11 you're going to pick
the one out of those 11 that's as far
from the other 11 controllers in the
population as possible or that's most
different from the others in the
population what do we mean by most
different how do we know for any given
controller in the population how
different it is from the other 11 we can
use behavioral distance again okay so
we're trying to determine how different
C is one of the 12 controllers in the
population so we're going to compare it
we're going to compare it against all
the other controllers that we've sent to
reality so far and we're looking we're
going to set the diversity of C to be
the minimum behavioral distance of C
from all those we've transferred to
reality and we're going to call this
diversity so let's go back to my cartoon
for a
moment in this case we've sent this one
to reality we visit this one and we
compute its behavioral distance to this
one and that distance is very very very
small let's assume we send this one to
reality also and it ends up with a high
transferability so we've we have we have
this one here which we've transferred to
reality we have this one down here which
we've transferred to reality
sorry about jumping around
here we're taking we're trying to
compute the diversity of C so we want to
take the minimum behavioral distance and
set that as the diversity of
C this one has a low behavioral distance
to this one and it has a high behavioral
distance to this one down here so we're
taking the minimum of those two
behavioral distances one that's very
large and one that's very small so the
diversity of this one is very
low okay let's compute the diversity of
this one let's assume again we've
transferred this one to reality and this
one to reality so this one has a
behavioral distance that's pretty
high and this behavioral distance here
which is less so the behavioral distance
between this controller and this one is
this
much it's but it's the it's the smaller
of the two between this behavioral
distance and this behavioral distance
this one is smaller so we set the
diversity of this one to this distance
remember that the diversity of this one
was this
distance so this controller is more
diverse or more unique than this one
this one is more similar to one we've
already trans transer everybody see
that okay let's do one more this one
down here it's got a behavioral distance
of this and a behavioral distance of
this of the two this one this is the
minimal one the minimum one is this
behavioral distance so this one is also
quite unique this one has high diversity
this one has high diversity this one has
very
low
diversity
okay so we're Computing diversity for
all the controllers in the
population and then we're going to take
among all of those the one that we send
next is the one that has highest
diversity it's the one that's most
different in the
population okay all right let's go back
let's go back for a moment
to let's go back to here okay so we have
all of these controllers we've evaluated
all of them on the virtual robot for one
of them or a couple of them in the
population we've actually sent them to
reality so for those we know their
actual
transferability and for the rest we have
estimated transferability in the way we
just talked about we can assume that
these 1 two 3 four five six seven have
survived these five have died off and
we've reached the end
of one generation and now at each
generation at that generation we can
send one new one to uh reality and we're
going to send the one uh that has
highest diversity which is not shown on
this picture here so among these seven
parents among the seven survivors we
compute the diversity of them we are not
going to send this one or this one if
we're assuming that we've sent both of
these to reality already we're going to
choose one of these five compute the
diversity of these five and try and it's
probably going to be this one this one
is for probably has the greatest
behavioral
distance from the two that we've sent so
far so every generation like in your
code we're evaluating every controller
in simulation and among all of them we
get to send one to reality keep going
and we evolve this we evolve this
population and we start to evolve uh
controllers that cause the virtual robot
these points start to rise in the space
we start to evolve controllers that
cause the virtual robot to exhibit more
of the behavior we want and these points
are also moving to the right generally
speaking as we take these controllers
and transfer them from simulation to
reality the Gap is narrowing what does
it mean that the Gap is narrowing well
as you'll
recall when we transferred the
first when we transferred the first
random controller in that in generation
zero it had low transferability there
was a big gap between what the simulated
robot did and what the physical robot
did at the end of The evolutionary run
after 200 Generations oops I'm sorry
after 200
Generations they had this
controller that had high uh
had high was good at objective
two and also High estimated
transferability The evolutionary
algorithm thinks that this one actually
will cross the
Gap and it was
right so this bottom pair of images is
showing you a controller that is up and
to the right in that cartoon it's good
at objective one at crossing the Gap and
it's good at getting the robot to do
what we want it to do move from left to
right okay the last part of this
experiment that I want to leave you with
is a mystery that nobody's been able to
solve since 2010 so we're going on 14
years
now look at the left pair of
images it's not the same controller but
it certainly produces something that
looks very similar it produces a very
similar behavior and yet one of them is
very transferable and the other one is
not you might remember in the Golem
project when we were looking at all
these pyramids being printed out by 3D
printers we could kind of come up for
with an intuition for why some robots or
some
behaviors transferred from simulation to
reality this uh quartet of videos is a
good reminder about how difficult the
reality Gap is it's actually not very
intuitive I've watched these videos
hundreds if not thousands of times and I
cannot tell what it is about the mass
distribution of this robot the friction
properties acceleration deceleration uh
jerk snap crackle and pop if you know
what those are very difficult to tell
what's going on
here
okay all right we have uh 15 minutes
left left um so we are going to return
to our schedule here and we'll start in
on lecture 19 but just to recap and
review where we've been uh we have
finished uh our section on crossing the
reality Gap uh hopefully I've convinced
you for how difficult this problem
actually
is we're going to in lecture 19 look at
one final challenge that exists uh that
existed and still exists in robotics
which is
scalability um so there are 61 of you in
this class each one of you I hope has
successfully implemented all 10
assignments Andor all five
differentiable assignments you're all
coding up new kinds of robots now in
your final project or coding up
different Fitness functions or creating
different environments for your robots
I'm sure you're all going to be
successful over the next four month over
the next four weeks and then your Co
there we will have 61 abandoned codeb es
and I will have to start all over again
with a fresh set of students next year
that's also true of our graduate
students they work on a robot or robots
or the projects that you just saw for
example for two three or four years and
then move on to something else H if
we're really going to solve robotics
robotics is a really really hard problem
we're probably going to have to have
hundreds or thousands of humans building
training uh uh build uh building robots
in simulation training them
manufacturing them in reality deploying
them out there how do we how do we build
a larger and larger human team which is
all bent to the same purpose which is to
design increasingly competent and safe
machines okay to scale that up uh one
obvious approach is to try and use the
idea of crowdsourcing to incentivize
people to want to come and participate
um even if they have relatively little
technical skills is there a way we can
build a large human team to collectively
design robots where some folks in the
team are more technically inclined than
others so in lecture 19 we're going to
look at a project uh that that started
in my lab and is now known as Twitch
Plays robotics um which is an attempt to
recruit uh large numbers of people from
the internet to collectively guide The
evolutionary process uh of an
evolutionary robotics experiment okay
all right so before we talk about uh
robots and twitch and crowd sourcing
let's go back to uh an unlik likely
Source let's start with the Chinese room
problem um if we want a large number of
people um some of whom have relatively
little technical skills to collectively
guide and experiment we can't assume
that they know how to code or that they
know math the most obvious thing to do
is to allow them to use natural language
to guide The evolutionary robotics
experiment um so what you're going to
see in Twitch Plays robotics is a
website that allows people to speak
directly to robots they can talk to them
in natural language you might remember
from the Chinese room problem that uh if
we have now a robot inside the Chinese
room and someone in Mandarin tells the
robot to jump all the robot hears is the
letter J followed by the letter U
followed by the letter M followed by the
letter P that word is meaningless to the
robot so we got a problem we want to
bring together a large number of
non-technical folks um in which the only
common language they have is literally
language a natural
language but robots don't uh understand
natural language so how how are they
going to how are we going to con connect
these two groups the evolving robot that
doesn't understand English we're going
to switch to English in a moment and a
whole bunch of non-technical folks who
are trying to tell the robot what to do
in
English okay there's been attempts to do
this for a very long time um this is
just optional and is an aside if you're
interested in the history of AI you
should definitely check out the psych
project by Doug lanat it's arguably one
of the longest running AI experiments uh
in history it's been going since 1984 if
you Google it you can go to the psych
project
website okay um I think uh in the
interest of time I'm going to skip over
this um how do we understand language uh
language seems like something that is
very uh non-embodied we've spent a lot
of time in this course talking about uh
embodiment but in recent years
neuroscientists have started to discover
that there is actually a very strong con
connection between language and our
embodiment um and I'm going to show you
some of that evidence first it turn as
you're going to see in the Twitch Plays
robotics project we can use some of
these ideas from Neuroscience to allow a
robot to actually start to understand
natural language to understand English
okay so how does this
work it turns out that in your brain
there is what's known as the motor strip
uh if you're to wear some headphones or
ear muffs exactly where the St strap
would go that's where the motor strip is
um if uh if I were to put you in a a
brain scanner and to touch your thumb
this particular part of the motor strip
would light up if I were to then tap
your index finger the next Point uh I'm
sorry I misspoke we're talking about the
motor strip motor meaning muscles if I
put you in a brain scanner and I asked
you to Twitch your thumb this part of
your motor strip would light up if I
asked you to Twitch your index finger a
place right next door in your brain in
the motor strip would light up so it
turns out that along the motor strip
here is all of your body parts organized
in this particular way so in your brain
the place where you dream up actions I
want to move my thumb I want to move my
index finger I want to move my thumb on
my other hand those imaginary those
motor plans things that you're planning
to do they tend to they may not
originate here but at least they cause
that part of your brain to light up and
it's not an arbitrary sequence it's
actually lined up like uh where
neighboring body parts if you actuate
them or you actuate them with your
Motors your Muses light up neighboring
parts of your motor
strip um you'll not notice that there is
one part of the human anatomy or a few
parts that are not shown on here um the
parts that are shown larger here these
are the parts that are more sensitive in
which uh more parts of the motor strip
light up you can imagine what those
missing parts are and they have very
large uh they take up a lot of real
estate in the brain's motor strip okay
what does that have to do with language
and robots we'll see in a moment let's
keep going
here's a here's a very interesting
Neuroscience experiment in which they
put uh they put subjects into a brain
scanner and the human subjects were a
asked to just relax and just quietly
listen to random words being spoken uh
into their
ears those words were things like talk
lick grasp pick walk and kick let's look
at the words lick pick and kick they
sound very similar so you might think
naively that similar sounding words are
going to light up similar uh closely uh
parts of the brain of your brain that
are close to one another in your brain
similar sounding brains are likely to
light up regions that are similarly
situated near one
another it turns out that's not what
happened it turns out that the word talk
and lick which sound quite different at
least more different than lick pii and
kick the words talk and lick uh those
two words do light up two brain regions
that are very near one another in the
motor strip in that part of your brain
that would be covered by the strap of
some
headphones similarly the words grasp and
pick which also sound different light up
closely uh uh closely situated uh
regions in the brain and walk and
kick where in the brain are they
lighting this up they're lighting It Up
near the face related parts of the motor
strip and
specifically uh the mouth the mouth
parts of what's known as the motor
homunculus I'm sorry I forgot to mention
that um the homunculus has a very long
and entertaining history in neural
science and
philosophy um people often thought we
are conscious because there's a little
man inside of us uh who's directing what
we do problem with the mo the homunculus
theory of consciousness of course is
what's in the head of the homunculus so
the idea of the homunculus was kind of
laughed out of uh philosophy and
psychology in the early 20th century but
the neuroscientist had the last laugh it
turns out there is a little man or woman
or person uh inside your body and inside
your brain and they're right here this
is the motor homunculus
okay so as you're lying quietly if you
were to lie quietly in a brain scanner
and hear these words it seems like and
this is this is a bit of a stretch this
is just the data but if you then
extrapolate from this data it suggests
that when you hear the word talk you
imagine yourself talking you're playing
with motor plans things you might try in
reality we just finished a lecture
segment on Sim toore you do Sim to real
all the time not everything you dream up
in Sim uh makes it to reality so as you
hear the word talk you actually imagine
yourself talking as you hear the word
lick you think about yourself licking
when you hear the word grasp you think
of yourself grasping as I continue with
these next three words watch yourself
thinking pick walk
kick did you see yourself imagining
picking something up walking in or
kicking that's what pulva Miller and
fed's study seems to suggest so
Neuroscience is starting to suggest that
there is a very close connection between
language and action this is going to be
important for us because we want a robot
that can understand the language of a
large crowd and act accordingly the
crowd is going to the crowd in the
Twitch Plays robotics project as we're
going to see is going to try and collect
itively evolve robots to jump or uh jump
or walk or run or sit down or stand up
so the robot has to learn a connection
between jump sit walk turn and so on and
what to do it turns out that we humans
seem to be doing this all the time as
you're listening to language you are
imagining it is that language is
triggering motor plans in the motor
strip part of your brain it
seems uh we'll finish I think with this
today um there is another uh there is
another stream of uh evidence another
branch of evidence that suggests humans
have a very close Connection in their
heads between language and action and
this evidence is the ubiquity of
embodied metaphors in language uh George
LOF very famous uh
psychologist pointed this out that uh
people tend to think of mathematics and
poetry and language and chess as very uh
very formidable very laudable very you
know things to work towards to achieve
very difficult things that have nothing
to do with the body Western thought has
a very long history of denigrating the
body the body is dirty temporary prone
to damage and death but the mind and the
soul is pure and is
forever turns out that as we're learning
from neuroscience and psychology that's
not the case even non-embodied things
like language seem to have deep roots in
our bodies and you can see this by
looking at language
itself uh if there are any non uh native
English speakers that are listening to
this lecture uh you might find this
particularly interesting in every
language there are idioms or metaphors
that seem confusing um if you're in an
argument with someone and you're trying
to advance your case and the person
accuses you of jumping to conclusions
even if you're a non-native English
speaker and you've never heard this
idiom before most non-native English
speakers can figure out what it means
without the English speaker having to
explain what don't jump to conclusions
means what does it mean it means don't
jump to conclusions but what is being
jumped over
in an argument you have to have a chain
of reasoning right I there's proof for
this and this suggests this and there's
proof for this and this suggests you
have to make your argument as a series
of Stepping Stones you can't jump over
any of those chains in your logical
argument to the conclusion or else I
don't trust your conclusion don't jump
to
conclusions you might uh if somebody uh
if somebody's uh complaining to you
about something that happened last week
you might admonish them to not look back
in anger this one is
interesting why do we say look back
don't look back in
anger we also say I look forward to
seeing you all in class on
Tuesday in most cultures the past things
that you're angry about in the past are
behind you and things in the future like
seeing you all in class next
Tuesday that tends to be things that we
look forward
to why do we look back metaphorically to
past events we obviously can't literally
see things that happened in our past and
I can't literally see you all until next
Tuesday why is
that I'll leave you to think on that uh
and I look forward to seeing you all on
Tuesday you have a quiz due tonight
you're all working on your weekly
reports which are due by midnight Monday
night have a good rest of your week and
enjoy the snow